# Streaming Data

This site provides documentation for this project.
Use the navigation to explore module-specific materials.

## How-To Guide

Many instructions are common to all our projects.

See
[⭐ **Workflow: Apply Example**](https://denisecase.github.io/pro-analytics-02/workflow-b-apply-example-project/)
to get these projects running on your machine.

## Project Documentation Pages (docs/)

- **Home** - this documentation landing page
- **Project Instructions** - instructions specific to this module
- **Your Files** - how to copy from examples and make them yours
- **Glossary** - project terms and concepts
- **API** - autogenerated look at the code interface

## Custom Project

### Dataset

The Kafka producer uses the sales.csv dataset in the data folder.

The dataset contains records of purchases, with each record containing the info:

- order_id
- datetime
- region_id
- currency_code
- product_id
- unit_price
- quantity
- is_online
- customer_id
- is_new_customer
- device_type
- payment_method
- referral_source
- discount_code
- customer_note

For this project, the original sales dataset was used.
Nothing was modified.

### Kafka Messages

The script kafka_producer_case.py in the src/streaming folder
was used to send messages.

Each message sent is a row from the sales dataset.

The Kafka topic used was streaming-05-storage-miller.

The region_id field was used as the message key.

The message fields were not altered by the producer.

The consumer adds derived fields and some segmentation to each message.

### Consumer Processing

The consumer reads one message at a time from Kafka.  In this case,
a total of ten messages were read.

Each message is logged as it is read and validated by the consumer.

After validation, new fields are calculated and running statistics of each
message is kept and logged.

Most original message fields are kept along with the newly added derived fields
and are written to a CSV and DuckDB file.

Specifically for this project, the following fields were processed:

- quantity
- unit_price
- region_id
- is_online
- discount_code

All derived fields came from these few fields due to simple mathematics as
well as the usage of reference tables.

### Experiments

In Phase 4, the Kafka topic was changed to streaming-05-storage-miller, the number of messages
sent was increased to ten, and certain logs in the consumer were altered to appear on one line rather
than many.

In Phase 5, two new fields were created:

- channel
- has_discount

Channel describes where the customer made the purchase, so the values for this field are
'online' or 'in_store'.

Has_discount is a boolean field that tells us if the customer used a discount for their purchase.

### Results

The producer successfully ran and sent all ten messages.

The consumer also successfully ran and processed those ten messages
by validating them and adding the derived fields.

The processed messages were added to the two output files and can
be found in the data\output folder.

Running statistics as well as calculations specific to each message can be
found in the logs.

### Interpretation

Compared to the original example, this updated version processes more message and
adds two more derived fields to the output.

By having channel and has_discount next to each other, I had hoped that this may
give way to a possible relationship.  I wanted to see if there was a correlation
between being an in-store purchase and the usage of discount codes.

Unfortunately, there were no discount codes used in the ten messages that were processed,
but the consumer is ready for real data that does have discount codes.
Explain what the Kafka streaming workflow showed you.

Similarly, of the nine messages, only one contained an in-store purchase.

A business would be able to see these extra fields and find out if there is a relationship
between them or not.  If there is, then further investigation can be warranted.  If not,
then we move on to another possible relationship.

This project helped me better understand the storage aspect of streaming data.  Persistent
storage is not a difficult tool to use, and now we have stored messages that can be analyzed at
another time.
